[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as the leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
camp created this podcast to share a
professional experience and insights and
to help you be a better b2b marketer
never miss an episode by subscribing on
Apple podcasts now let's get started
[Music]
hello Portland Oregon you know this week
is just one of those weeks when I have
several pressing client deliverables and
on top of it I also need to create
several podcast and video recordings
like creating content to build my
personal brand and working on client
projects are two full-time jobs I'm
telling you so what is the take away of
all this don't do what I do just don't
do what I do it's way too much work
so speaking of creating content here is
a LinkedIn message funk Winnie who lives
in Hong Kong all right and if she said
hi Pam I continually read your blogs and
to find them useful as I'm in the b2b
marketing field and specialize in the
asia-pacific market shall we connect so
I can be informed about your new
articles of course Queenie I love to
connect I answered an English Pounds she
add one quick question
she said hey Pam when it comes to
content marketing I understand many
in-house experts can contribute with
content but they might not write it in a
customer oriented wait I agree with that
for tech startup company what is your
take on outsourcing the content writing
versus getting a copywriter in-house
well great question when he actually I
want to tell you Queenie every marketer
struggles with that decision and a
balance should I hire someone full-time
or should I outsource which marketing
functions should I take in-house and
which one should be outsourced so let's
talk about the pros and cons
of in-house versus outsource all right
so for in-house the Vantage's are
obviously you have a total control of
when and how things are done for your
marketing materials and campaigns you
also have more transparency you have a
process so you know how things get done
right and it's dedicated team so they
understand your company's products and
services so much better assume is a
small team then a communication within
team tend to be a whole lot faster right
so the decision-making process is much
quicker but in a big enterprise you know
it might be a totally different story
dedicated team may slow down the
decision-making so that can be a Vantage
versus disadvantage another advantage is
much lower risk of confidentiality
breach so what are the disadvantages of
in-house well it does take longer time
to turn around within the company than
just agency and another thing is the
skill set within the team probably
likely to be broad
then specialized right and I assume the
company's turnover rate is low that
means majority of the talent tend to
have last industry experience we just
may not be true but that can be one of
the potential disadvantage another thing
is it reduced employees time left for
other key business initiatives that's
assume some of the tasks are tactical or
repetitive right so what are the
advantages for outsourcing obviously you
can scale the effort is whole lot more
quickly and you can access the specific
and specialized disciplines such as SEO
Facebook pay ad you know you can get an
agency to do it if they do that kind of
job day in and day out is they do it
much faster and a more efficient Anala
Vantage is a quick turnaround with new
creative ideas and to do outsourcing
obviously your team can focus on
strategy and leave the technical
implementation to contractors or
agencies so what are some of the
disadvantages obviously they don't have
the complete dedication to your business
after all they are contractors
they probably have multiple accounts
that they have to manage another thing
is lack of full understanding of your
products and services especially if your
products and services are complicated
right they don't fully understand any
charge by hours and another thing is
giving that they don't have a complete
dedication to your business and they
don't fully understand your products and
services they may require multiple
rounds of review to get a job done in
another thing which is a high turnover
of accounting something that does happen
from time to time if you actually work
with the different people within agency
therefore there is no perfect solution
so how do you decide when to use
in-house versus outsourcing to me
Queenie that is a budget and a headcount
discussion I always ask my clients do
you have a proof account to hire someone
full-time or do you just have budget for
outsourcing for tech startup chances are
that you don't have headcount and your
budget is small you'll likely need to
outsource as much as you can and I told
Queenie that even if you get a headcount
you should hire someone who can wear
multiple hats and cover multiple
marketing disciplines as much as
possible you know from copy writings
email marketing to social media outreach
many blog posts suggest that you should
all source repetitive tasks or tactical
works the challenge is how do you define
technical work in modern marketing here
is a great sample is SEO technical well
I think it's quite strategic yet many
company tend to also us that is content
creation technical personally I think
it's strategic tool but again many
companies always watch that so you need
to understand your existing talent pool
and understand what they can do evaluate
your overall marketing plan and identify
the gap between your talent pool and the
marketing plan then use your head count
and a budget to determine which
marketing functions to outsource versus
insource does that make sense
the key things about outsourcing is to
make sure that you spend time to train
and debrief your contractors and agency
that's very very critical don't we
expect them to know your products and
services from get-go it's your job let
me say that again it's your job to
breathe and to train them well they can
only excel if you nurture them and
provide the tools and knowledge that
they can do their jobs you want them to
fly then give them winds so they can fly
I told Queeny in-house or outsourced
there is no right or wrong answer at the
end of the day it's what you are
comfortable with how you want to
prioritize your resource and budget I
made that very clear to her if she wants
to hire contractors make sure that she
takes time to breathe and to train them
well so Quinny
it was great connecting with you on
LinkedIn I hope that we can mean when I
visit Hong Kong next time so my question
to you how do you determine when and how
to insource
or outsource your marketing efforts if
you are inspired by what you hear today
please give a five-star review and
subscribe to the show on your favorite
podcast platform or visit my website at
p.m. dinner com4 slash podcast again if
you prefer watching video simply type
kam dinner on youtube and subscribe
trust me one new video every week be
well and that's connect again next week
take care bye bye
if you enjoyed this podcast please share
it with your colleagues and leave a
review on Apple podcast
[Music]
you